---
layout: post
title: "Atheist"
category: reading
tags: []
---


Last month, I read Alain de Botton's book: *Religion for Atheists*. In that book, he manages to change atheists' opinion on religion, not make them believe, but at least make them stop thinking it's ridiculous. And it is persuasive. My roommate happens to be a member of the local Christian communion. So I decided to attend a weekly religious service with him to see what religion is beneath its sacred cloak.


We got up early on Sunday morning and walked to the place where they prayed to God. Contrary to what I imagined - magnificent church with peaceful looking priest, it was a small room filled up with people of our age. Most of them are girls. And they were singing beautiful songs. I felt comfortable to listen to these songs because they are full of love, but not the typical love between lovers or relatives. Then a preacher delivered a lengthy sermon. I just got a chance to scan the Bible. After that, we were divided into several groups to share thoughts. As a newcommer, I told the reason why I came here. A girl shared a negative feeling about her recent life and study……Finally we just prayed. 


Though I didn't accept anything to be my saver, I enjoyed the whole process, when I was listening, reading, singing, speaking, and doing nothing. And I did feel the great power of religion. Religion just gathers people together and provides a media, to which we can look for guidance, **consolation** and morality. What we are looking for is not important. The important thing is we have a uniform way to show our weakness, in another word, admit we are incomplete or "guilty", which will prevent us from being weird in the crowd because all the others are doing the same thing: kneel down and pray. This is why Alain de Botton uses the word "mechanism" to describe religion.


I hated formalism before, but this book helped me to rediscover it again. Sometimes rules, laws and formal things can kill imagination and personality, but it also brings us the **order**. When we are designing a complex system(like nation machine), order can not be ignored.


If you don't have enough time to read the book, I highly recommend you to see Alain de Botton's [talk](http://www.ted.com/talks/alain_de_botton_atheism_2_0.html) on TED. He explained why religion was more effective than **art** as a tool to improve the sociaty and why religion existed since we already had **education**. It's more interesting than the book.


I also took part in the Christmas party this year. It had been a long time for me not being involved in such activities since I left high school. Amen.
